Hello everybody and welcome to this
tutorial today.
Today I will be talking about our working environment.
I will show you how you can set it up.
So first off, we will need to install VirtualBox
Now it doesn't matter if you're running
Mac OS X, Linux or Windows
you will still need to do this
for several reasons, really.
First of all
I mean , we're gonna be doing a lot of stuff
and we're gonna be doing it as root.
So we are always facing the prospect
that we might break something
that we might mess something up
I will show you how you can set it up.
because even if you do mess something up
and even if you don't know how to fix it
it doesn't really matter
It is only a virtual machine
You don't really have any data of
importance on it.
However if you mess something up on your main machine
If you're forced to reinstall it or something of a kind
then you need to back all your data up
you need to figure out where everything is, etc
or you can try fixing the problem
and depending on what that is
it could consume a large amount of your time
So, just take my advice for it
and go ahead and install VirtualBox.
It's not that complicated.
It's pretty simple.
I'll show you how to do it in a minute.
There's another reason why we're installing a virtual machine
and that is safety.
We're gonna be downloading a lot of stuff from the net
and even though I will be using sites that I consider to be safe
and that a lot of other people consider
to be safe
it is always good to have that extra layer of protection.
So even if something happens and your virtual machine
even if it gets compromised or something of a kind, it's fine.
It's a virtual machine
No problems there.
There's nothing of importance there.
Your private information is not there.
Your credit card is not there.
There is literally nothing there aside from the tools that you are using
that can be obtained from the internet.
Anyway
So, without further adieu
let's just go ahead and see how VirtualBox is installed.
Now there are two ways of doing this.
One is preferable over the other.
So the first method is a lot simpler.
So you can just go ahead and open up your favorite browser.
Mine is Firefox.
Use your favorite search engine.
Type in "VirtualBox"
Press enter
and there you go!
Straight off the bat!
You have official site - VirtualBox.
Just gonna go ahead and open it.
In the left corner, it says "About", "Screenshots"
There's a ton load of documentation here.
For the time being, there really isn't any need to go over it.
Rather instead, just click "downloads"
Excellent
So here you have a list of host machines.
You have "VirtualBox for Windows hosts", for "OS X hosts"
for "Linux hosts", "Solaris hosts"...
Actually for Solaris, you can just use it from repositories immediately
but for the time being, we cannot use the repositories.
We need to configure them in Linux
and repositories in Linux are places
from where you pull your software for your Linux distro.
Anyway, we will need VirtualBox for Linux hosts.
I have already downloaded it in order to save time in this tutorial
but you just click on it, and then it
pops.
So you have
These guys are amazing
They have this virtual machine manager setup
for multiple Linux distributions.
So you have Ubuntu
You have Debian
Not sure why they actually separated Ubuntu and Debian
but it doesn't really matter since Ubuntu is based on Debian.
Pretty much everything that works in Debian will work on Ubuntu as well.
You have openSUSE
Wow, you even have Enterprise
but for the time being, I am interested in Fedora
and even though Fedora 21 came out
and it says here Fedora 18
that's perfectly fine.
It's gonna run. No problems.
Anyway, right next to it
you have i386 and AMD64.
What do these marcations mean?
Well basically, they're just references to 32-bit and 64-bit architectures.
If you do not know what your machine is
whether it's 32-bit or 64-bit
well, no problems there.
Just go ahead and open up your terminal
Type in "uname -a"
Press "Enter"
You don't need to be root to do this.
You do this as pretty much any user
and you get a listing of information here.
So you have Linux platform
localhost
That's the domain.
You have the version of the kernel
and Fedora distribution as well.
It's number 20
and then you have the architecture.
So it's X86_64
There we go.
64-bit architecture.
Fantastic
Now that we have established that, we can
you can actually go ahead and click on it.
If you're using a 32-bit one
just click on the 32-bit one.
The procedure is absolutely the same.
There are literally no differences.
It gives me an option to save a file.
So just click "Save" and then click "Okay"
That will download the file for you in the default downloads folder
unless you configured it in a different fashion.
I'm just gonna go ahead and cancel it
because as I said, I downloaded it previously
in order to save some time in this
tutorial.
Just cancel
Go back to your terminal.
Now clear the screen.
You will need to be root in order to
do this.
So just type in "SU", press "Enter, and type in your password
and of course I got my password wrong.
I'm quite famous for doing this.
I don't know why
but it's fine when I forget my passwords.
When I forget my encryption keys, that can be a bit of a problem
anyway there is a tool for managing RPM packets
as this is a Red Hat distro.
All the packets
software packets for it
I have an extension - ".rpm"
Here, let me just go ahead and show this to you.
I'm going to to go ahead and create a bigger zoom in
so you can all see what I am doing here.
Now, I am currently using the terminal
and I will give more detailed explanations.
I will instruct you in how to use it.
I will explain pretty much all the commands that we will be using
in great detail
but for the time being, just tune in and follow through.
So there's a command "ls"
and then I want to go to the folder
downloads
Home
Chronic -- That's me. That's the username.
Downloads
and VirtualBox. There we go.
Press "Enter"
I'm just gonna go ahead and clear screen one more time.
There we go.
Got exactly the same thing but a better look.
Anyway, you see this extension that I have marked?
It says ".rpm"
Now ".rpm" represents a type of packet that I stated previously
that is meant specifically for certain
Linux distributions
such as Red Hat, Fedora, Syntax, and a few others.
What you can do is use your default RPM software.
So just type in "rpm -i"
"-i" argument is for installed
and then specify the path of your packet.
So home/Chronic/Downloads/VirtualBox
and press Enter from here.
Now again, this process is automated.
There isn't much that you need to do here.
Maybe press "Yes" and that's it along the way
but in any case, this is not the method that you should be using.
This is a method that I'm showing that
you CAN use
but I wouldn't advise, as if you do install it like this
it tends to break with newer updates
so it can be a bit problematic.
I will show you another method in the next tutorial
where you can actually use "yum", which is a default packet manager.
in order to install this packet
and then update it accordingly.
In any case, I bid you farewell
and I'll see you in the next tutorial, where I'll pick this up.